.TH LazPaint 1 "18 May 2020" "" LazPaint
.SH NAME
LazPaint - Image editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lazpaint
[INPUT FILE] [OUTPUT FILE]
.br
.B lazpaint
[INPUT FILE] [ACTION]... [OUTPUT FILE]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Graphics viewer and editor. 
.PP
Can read layered files (lzp, ora, pdn, oXo), multi-images (gif, ico, tiff), flat files (bmp, jpeg, pcx, png, tga, xpm, xwd), vectorial (svg), 3D (obj). Has drawing tools, phong shading, curve adjustments, filters and render some 
textures.
.SH OPTIONS
If supplied, the INPUT FILE is loaded. If the OUTPUT FILE is supplied, the image is saved and the program ends. Otherwise, the GUI of the program is displayed.
.PP
.B -scriptbasedir
DIRECTORY
.RS
set the directory where Python scripts for LazPaint are located.
.RE

.B -script
FILENAME
.RS
runs the specified Python script. It must have a ".py" extension.
.RE

.B -quit
.RS
quits the program even if no output file was provided. Can be useful when only running scripts.
.RE

.B -new
WIDTH,HEIGHT
.RS
creates an empty image of size WIDTH x HEIGHT.
.RE

.B -resample
WIDTH,HEIGHT
.RS
resamples the image to the size WIDTH x HEIGHT.
.RE

.B -opacity
ALPHA
.RS
applies the opacity to the image. ALPHA is between 0 and 255.
.RE

.B -gradient
R1,G1,B1,A1,R2,G2,B2,A2,TYPE,X1,Y1,X2,Y2
.RS
renders a gradient from point X1,Y1 to point X2,Y2. TYPE can be linear, reflected, diamond, radial or angular. The starting color is (R1,G1,B1,A1) and final color is (R2,G2,B2,A2).
.RE

.B -horizontalflip
.RS
flips selection or image horizontally.
.RE

.B -verticalflip
.RS
flips selection or image vertically.
.RE

.B -swapredblue
.RS
swap red and blue channels.
.RE

.B -smartzoom3
.RS
resample the image 3 times bigger with smart detection of borders.
.RE

.B -rotatecw
.RS
rotates the image clockwise.
.RE

.B -rotateccw
.RS
rotates the image counter-clockwise.
.RE

.B -rotate180
.RS
rotates the image 180 degrees.
.RE
